Due to the strong electron-atom interaction, theoretical considerations suggest that dynamical diffraction plays an important role in high-energy electron diffraction experiments. Adopting a particle-oriented point of view, dynamical scattering is also referred to as multiple scattering which has a long history in solid state physics. Dynamical diffraction is usually modelled with Schroedinger's equation and traditionally solved for high-energy electrons with either blochwave or multislice methods.

These approaches usually lead to reasonable agreement with experiments for simulated thickness significantly thinner than the actual experimental crystal thickness. It has been suggested that inelastic scattering. Besides It has been demonstrated that organic structures can be solved using the kinematic theory of standard X-ray crystallography, suggesting that dynamical diffraction may not be as strong as the theory predicts. It has been proposed that inelastic scattering could be responsible for this dynamical diffraction mitigation effects provided the order in which scattering events take place is taken into account.

Since the order of scattering events can not be controlled with blochwave or multislice, we propose a real space multiple scattering approach based on the T-matrix which may offer this opportunity. It is applied to the case of scattering of 200keV electrons by a regular array of spheres with comparable potential strength to carbon atoms. The validity of the commonly used forward scattering approximation assumed by multislice and blochwave is discussed. The scattering probabilities of multiple scattering events are also compared to the classical picture of multiple scattering based on ballistic arguments. 
